# hello-world
This repository is for learning GitHub and setting things up for my Code:You course.

Hey there, Code:You teachers! I'm Amanda, and I'm a product designer (doing both UX and UI, most of us don't do just one or the other nowadays) at an enterprise SaaS software company. I've been a product designer professionally for almost 5 years, but before that I was a teacher for 13 years (mostly high school, mostly French language and cultures). There was one year where I did BOTH full time as I started out in UX, which is a super competitive field. I would attend standups with the dev team on my lunch break, then come home and work on research & designs every night and weekend. It was rough, but it helped me break into tech! Prior to that, though, I was always involved in tech - I built my own computers, taught myself a little code here and there to create and maintain websites I made for personal and professional use, and was a technology resource teacher who helped other teachers with both hardware and software issues as well as training on new tech. I also taught myself a lot about design over the years to create classroom resources as well as run an Etsy wedding and party invitation store for many years, and coming into design I had a lot of experience with Adobe products. I'm old enough to remember using DOS and Windows 3.1 with 5 inch floppies in the late 80s/early 90s (I started when I was 2), but young enough to use all the current, trendy tech and navigate new tech with ease.

Today, I'm one of two onshore designers (we also have two offshore designers) that works with six product managers and a large onshore/offshore dev (30+?). We are the software division of a larger company, so our TRM (like CRM but for recruiting talent) software is used both in-house and at other exec search firms, VC/PE firms, and even by big enterprises like Google, Ford, etc. The software we have is old and poorly designed to the point that the tech and design debt were staggering, and we couldn't design or build most of the newer features we wanted, so last year we started rearchitecting a new version of the app from the ground up. Alpha launches at the end of August, with Beta and GA soon to follow as we migrate existing clients to the new app. I also work on the UX of a lot of the AI integrations, including machine learning algorithms, vector searching, and NLM models. I'm still not entirely sure how all of this works, but we're implementing multiple AI touchpoints into our new app and that's where a lot of my features end up incorporating these proprietary builds so I've started to learn more.

Because of all of my crazy adventures at this job and in previous roles, I've learned a lot about software development and even dabbled here and there, mostly to gain a better understanding of how things work and how to be a better collaborator with our dev teams. But there's still a lot I don't know, and I'm excited for this course and the challenges it will bring! So far, I've taken a little bit of self-paced HTML and CSS courses which have massively assisted in my day-to-day work, and I've had a lot of questions for our backend devs about JSON files and how all the architecture works, and in a previous role I've even learned to write certain very specific C sharp code blocks to assist in uploading revisions to the AR game I worked on as I managed a project to update the UX of character narration, but that's about all I've done in terms of dev work. Probably the most important thing I've learned for my daily role is how front end devs use containers to design a page, which I mimic in my Figma designs as much as is feasible/as much as the components will allow.

I'm not really sure where I want to take this coding experience after this course is complete. For now, it's primarily so I can expand my job skills to perhaps build more of a UX engineer role (in the modern sense of a UXD/FE dev combo, not the original definition that was more of a UX architect), but I might even make the switch to coding full-time. I want to be able to not just critique implementation of designs as a review step at the end of the dev cycle, but be able to fix it. I find overcoming challenges really exciting. I've also been really interested in how to build games since working with an AR gaming startup, and the differences between C sharp and other code bases are super interesting to me. I've even got a game idea I'm fleshing out on the side that I might start creating/coding in Unity ;) Regardless, so far, tech has changed my entire career progression as well as my family's socio-economic status, and it has allowed me to work at home which is much more beneficial to my disabilities/allows me to be more successful than I was able to be in the past when I was constantly overstimulated in the classroom.

Thanks for reading my super long readme file! I can't wait to get to know you and learn from you!
